The prophet Isaiah foretold that in the final part of the days, nations would stream to
the mountain of Jehovah, his elevated pure worship, to be instructed about his ways.
In God's organization, we can all benefit from that divine education.
We also see the results of Proverbs chapter 4 verse 18.
The path of the righteous is like the bright morning light that grows brighter and brighter.
Naturally, what we learn through the program of divine education has to keep pace with
our refined understanding of Bible teachings.
To accomplish this, the teaching committee of the governing body oversees the work of
the Theocratic schools department in Patterson, New York.
How do they keep the curriculums of our Theocratic schools up to date and effective in training
God's people to do His will?
In the fall of 1942, Brother Nathan nor wondered if a thousand pioneers could be found
who would be willing to go through Gilead to ensure the school's operation for at least
five years.
Nearly 80 years later, Gilead's school is still going strong.
And it's not alone.
The Theocratic schools department develops and maintains seven schools under the direction
of the teaching committee.
Together, these schools train God's people for Theocratic assignments around the world.
But each school's curriculum needs continual review and updating.
Why?
We may receive new direction for a school from the governing body, or need to integrate
Bible teachings from new or updated publications.
Thanks to Jehovah's rich blessing, Theocratic schools are being conducted in 93 branch territories
and 293 languages.
The amazing growth of these schools produces a mammoth amount of work behind the scenes.
There are more than 2,000 documents that need to be put through a robust process of formatting,
proofreading, editing, cross-checking for redundancy and internal indexing.
Additionally, thousands of reference checks that include scripture citations and publication
references are made.
The schools are dynamic, so this work is continuous to keep them up to date, accurate,
and harmonious.
Once revisions are identified, the affected teaching outlines are adjusted.
Often when a school is revised, a pilot class is taught.
Brothers from the schools department can observe and listen to comments and suggestions from
the instructors.
They can then make further adjustments before the updated schools taught worldwide.
The Theocratic schools are having a far-reaching effect.
How do the students feel about their training?
The training we received at Giliat was a big help for my new assignment as a member of
the branch committee.
It helped me not to be rule-oriented or position-oriented.
It helped me to understand how Jehovah wants me to use authority, to treat our brothers
and sisters in a humble, in a friend, in a loving way, to really take care of his sheep.
In October 2018, a special announcement was made.
We are pleased to inform you that the governing body has given approval for all field missionaries
with an FMF enrollment who have been serving for at least five years to attend the School
of Kingdom Evangelizers SKE.
SKE was very much a refresher course for us.
It helped us to be able to bring back to mind things that we had learned from Giliat
and then improve upon them.
Going to SKE was just Jehovah's way of giving us that encouragement, that hug, telling
us that he loves us and giving us the needed training to keep on going.
Brother Normaie have wondered in 1942 if we'd ever find a thousand students.
But by the tenth class of Giliat, the 1,000th student had graduated.
In just the United States branch territory, more than 1,000 students are being trained
in theocratic schools each week.
In our times we see Isaiah 60 verse 22 coming true.
The little one will become a thousand and the small one a mighty nation.
Jehovah has blessed the use of theocratic schools to contribute to this amazing growth.
And with such training, he's strengthening his people from the inside out as he prepares
us all for the real life to come.